NFT authorization - ERC721 extension (#5585)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-5585.md

---
eip: 5585
title: EIP-721 NFT Authorization

> description: NFT owners can authorize other users to use their NFTs for business purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Allows NFT owners to authorize other users to use their NFTs
```

> description: NFT owners can authorize other users to use their NFTs for business purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Allows NFT owners to authorize other users to use their NFTs
```

author: Veega Labs (@VeegaLabsOfficial)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/nft-authorization-erc721-extension/10661
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-08-15
requires: 721
---

## Abstract

1. By registering and confirming ownership and other commercial rights independently on the chain, it supports the independent circulation of commercial authorization. Thereby the users will get more benefits in addition to selling, and it will significantly motivate users in various ways.
2. After separating the ownership of assets and other commercial rights, the information of full authorization chain will be saved by smart contracts, and the benefits of commercial users will be protected by smart contracts on the blockchain, and would not be affected by the changes of ownership.

> 3. The cryptocurrency paid by the users will be hosted and locked in the smart contract, and the "authorized funds" will be dynamically unlocked to asset owners based on how long the assets being used. （this feature will be implemented in the future）

Reviewer: This should be a paragraph, not a list. It should also describe a high-level overview of the solution described in the spec.

## Motivation

> The development of NFT has simplified the ownership verification and transaction. However, other kinds of rights except ownership such as exhibition rights, lease rights, creation of derivatives etc. are still difficult to be circulated and used independently, which have limited the value and commercialization of digital assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The NFTs have simplified ownership verification and transfer. However, other kinds of rights other than ownership, such as exhibition rights, lease rights, or derivation rights are still difficult to grant, which has limited the value and commercialization of digital assets.
```

> As the development of the Metaverse, digital assets are diverse on the blockchain such as digital collections, virtual real estate, and commercial copyrights etc.,  the commercial rights (exhibition rights, derivative rights, commercial authorization, etc.) based on digital assets are becoming a potential business form. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the development of the Metaverse, digital assets are becoming more diverse, with new use cases such as digital collections, virtual real estate, and commercial copyrights. Meanwhile, commercial rights (exhibition rights, derivative rights, commercial authorization, etc...) based on digital assets are becoming a potential business form. 
```

After separating the ownership of assets and other commercial rights, other problems will be raised. For example, when the ownership changes, at the same time the commercial authorization is still valid, it will result the conflict interest between the new owner and the commercial authorization user. It is extremely important thing how to protect the interests of both parties.

## Specification

> 

Reviewer: Do you want to use RFC 2119?

> ```solidity

Reviewer: This is not a valid solidity interface, and the indentation is off. Please fix this.

struct UserRecord {
address user;
 uint expires
}

// The total users of every single NFT can be authorized to set by creators
uint256 userLimit = 5;

//The starting time of staking
mapping(uint256 => uint) timeOfStaking;

> //if resetAllowed == false£¬the authorization can be revoked; otherwise, it cannot be revoked. 

Reviewer: Not sure what happened here - is the euro and the logical not meant to be here?

//Store the authorized users and their expire time
mappint(uint256 => mapping (uint => UserRecord)) expires;

//Store the index of users authorization
mappint(uint256 => mapping (address => uint)) _userTokensIndex;

//NFT creators can set the starting time of the staking
function stakingTimeUpdate(address[] user, uint[] stakingTime) external;

//Update userLimit and resetAllowed
function userLimitAndresetAllowedUpdate(uint256 limit, bool allowed) external onlyOwner;

/**
 * @dev Authorize the usage of the token(the owner or approver).
 * @param tokenId The token ID.
 * @param user The address that should use the token.
 * @param duration Durations in seconds for the authorization.
*/

// NFT Owner authorize NFT to users.
function userAuthorization(uint256 tokenId, address user, uint duration) external returns(uint) 

// NFT Owner extends the duration of authorization 
function durationUpdate(uint256 tokenId, address user, uint duration) external returns(uint)

// Get the times of expired for one specific tokenId and user.
function userExpiresTime(uint256 tokenId, address user) external view returns(uint) 

// Check if the token is available for authorization.

> function authorizationAvailabilityCheck (uint256 tokenId) public view returns(bool) 

Reviewer: These are not descriptive enough. Describe what each parameter does and what the return value is.

/**
@dev Reset the user registration record of the tokenId, if you own the tokenId.
*/

//Clear authorization records
function resetUser(uint256 tokenId, address user) external;

event userAuthorization(uint256 indexed tokenID, address indexed user, uint expires);

event userAuthorizationUpdate(uint256 indexed id, uint expires);
```

## Rationale

> By separating every single NFT's ownership and user rights to maximize its utilities and therefore enhance its commercial value. 

Reviewer: This particular line reads like motiavation. Please rephrase it or remove it.

Secondly, this EIP combines staking and authorization then the NFT creator can set the number of users that the NFT owner can authorize according to the staking period of time of each NFT. For example, if a NFT owner stakes his NFT for one year, he can obtain the maximum number of authorized users specified by userLimited. If he stakes his NFT for half a year, he can only authorize 2 or 3 users, so as to avoid the hype of NFT to a certain extent and maximize every single NFT¡¯s value. 

In addition, this design can be seamlessly integrated with third parties. (1) It is completely based on [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) extensions, developers can easily use all interfaces based on existing code (2) other projects can directly interact with these interfaces and functions to implement their own types of transactions. For example, Lavender Bear's announcement platform can use this agreement to allow all its NFT holders to authorize their partners and also allow them to activate or terminate the authorization at any time to better manage partners.

## Backwards Compatibility

> This standard will be completely EIP-721 compatible by adding an extension function set.  All the interfaces and functions are easy for developer to understand and adopted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This standard is compatible with EIP-721 since it is an extension of it.
```

## Security Considerations

> There is a flag to control the rights between the owner and the user. The owner can cancel the authorization at anytime if the flag is true, and can NOT cancel the authorization when it comes to false.

Reviewer: This reads like rationale to me, not like security considerations.

## Motivation

The development of NFT has simplified the ownership verification and transaction. However, other kinds of rights except ownership such as exhibition rights, lease rights, creation of derivatives etc. are still difficult to be circulated and used independently, which have limited the value and commercialization of digital assets.

As the development of the Metaverse, digital assets are diverse on the blockchain such as digital collections, virtual real estate, and commercial copyrights etc.,  the commercial rights (exhibition rights, derivative rights, commercial authorization, etc.) based on digital assets are becoming a potential business form. 

After separating the ownership of assets and other commercial rights, other problems will be raised. For example, when the ownership changes, at the same time the commercial authorization is still valid, it will result the conflict interest between the new owner and the commercial authorization user. It is extremely important thing how to protect the interests of both parties.

## Specification

> This EIP is to completely separate the ownership of NFT and the usage rights to help the commercialization of NFT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---

> eip: 4966

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eip: 5585
```
Don't forget to rename the file as well!

title: Authorization standard based on ERC721
description: NFT owners can authorize other users to use their NFTs for business purpose.
author: VeegaLabs Official (@VeegaLabs100), <kccinfo100@gmail.com>

> discussions-to: #4966

Reviewer: Must be on FEM. https://ethereum-magicians.org/

Author: Thanks, @Pandapip1. I will make them happen and create a new pull request.

---
eip: 5585
title: EIP-721 NFT Authorization
description: Allows NFT owners to authorize other users to use their NFTs.
author: Veega Labs (@VeegaLabsOfficial), Sean NG (@ngveega), Tiger (@tiger0x), Fred (@apan), Fov Cao (@fovcao)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/nft-authorization-erc721-extension/10661
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-08-15
requires: 721
---

## Abstract

This EIP separates an [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) NFT's ownership from its commercial usage rights to allow for the independent management of those rights.

## Motivation

Most NFTs have a simplified ownership verification mechanism, with a sole owner of an NFT. Under this model, other rights, such as exhibition, or derivative works, are not possible to grant, limiting the value and commercialization of NFTs. Therefore, the separation of an NFT's ownership and user rights can enhance its commercial value. 

> With the development of the Metaverse, NFTs are becoming more diverse, with new use cases such as digital collections, virtual real estate, and commercial copyrights. Meanwhile, the commercial rights, such as exhibition, derivative or commercial authorization based on NFTs are becoming a potential business form.  

Reviewer 2: There are competing ERCs addressing the ability to rent out, share or use temporarily NFTs, as well as the privilege managements. I'd suggest you also try to demonstrate why this standard is better than the competing ERCs in the Motivation and Rationale of design choices

Author: Hi, @xinbenlv Thanks for your suggestion. So basically commercial authorization is a broader concept including many kinds of right and renting is just one of them.

Reviewer 2: Sounds good, I suggest you put that into Motivation section. Also in ratinale consider mention the unique design choice you made that create such merit

Author: Not a problem, thanks @xinbenlv

Author: > Sounds good, I suggest you put that into Motivation section. Also in ratinale consider mention the unique design choice you made that create such merit

Hi, @xinbenlv , we have added those into the EIP and created a pull request based on 5585, thanks for your suggestions again.

---
eip: 5585
title: EIP-721 NFT Authorization
description: Allows NFT owners to authorize other users to use their NFTs.
author: Veega Labs (@VeegaLabsOfficial)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/nft-authorization-erc721-extension/10661
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-08-15
requires: 721
---

## Abstract

This standard is an extension of [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) It proposes a solution where NFT holders can grant NFT buyers a set of rights for any kind of commercial purposes by separating the ownership of NFT and the usage, it supports the independent circulation of commercial authorization.

> The NFT contract owner can set the maximum number of authorized users of each NFT and whether the authorization can be cancelled during the period, so as to define the authorization baseline of the project.

Author: Ok, let me try.

    /// param expires The expires time of the authorization
    event userAuthorization(uint256 indexed tokenId, address indexed user, uint expires);
}
```

The `userAuthorization(uint256 tokenId, address user, uint duration)` function MAY be implemented as `public` or `external`.

The `durationUpdate(uint256 tokenId, address user, uint duration)` function MAY be implemented as `public` or `external`.

The `userExpiresTime(uint256 tokenId, address user)` function MAY be implemented as `pure` or `view`.

The `userLimitUpdate(unit256 userLimit)` function MAY be implemented as`public` or `external`.

The `resetAllowedUpdate(bool resetAllowed)` function MAY be implemented as `public` or `external`.

The `authorizationAvailabilityCheck (uint256 tokenId)` function MAY be implemented as `pure` or `view`.

The `resetUser(uint256 tokenId, address user)` function MAY be implemented as `public` or `external`.

The `stakingTimeUpdate(address[] user, uint[] stakingTime)` function MAY be implemented as `public` or `external`.

The `userAuthorization` event MUST be emittedwhen the user of a NFT is changed or the authorization expires time is updated.

> ## Rationale

Reviewer: Please fix the grammar issues with this section.

Author: Not a problem, thanks.

First of all, NFT contract Owner can set the maximum number of authorized users for each NFT and whether the NFT owner can cancel the authorization at any time to define the NFT's authorization properties and protect the interests of the parties involved.

Secondly, this EIP combines staking and authorization so that NFT owners can only assign limited authorizations for their NFTs for a given staking period. This protects all parties from overhype and to ensure that the NFT's price more accurately matches its value.

Thirdly, there is a resetAllowed flag to control the rights between the owner and the user. The owner can cancel the authorization at anytime if the flag is true, and can NOT cancel when it comes to false.

Finally, this design can be seamlessly integrated with third parties. It is an extension of [EIP-721](./eip-721.md), so it can be integrated into new NFT projects. Other projects can directly interact with these interfaces and functions to implement their own types of transactions. For example, an announcement platform could use this EIP to allow all its NFT owners to authorize partners and terminate the authorization at any time.

## Backwards Compatibility

> This standard is compatible with  [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) since it is an extension of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This standard is compatible with [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) since it is an extension of it.
```

## Security Considerations

> There is a potential problem. If someone bought a NFT within the duration of authorization, he may not receive the authorization fee which has been transferred to the previous NFT holder when the authorization started. And he may cancel the authorization immediately which is definitely not expected by the NFT user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If someone buys an NFT within the duration of an authorization, they will not have to stake anything, providing no incentive to cancel the authorization.
```

> We have a way to address the problem. The authorization fee paid by the users will be hosted and locked in a smart contract, and the "authorized funds" will be dynamically unlocked to NFT owners in terms of how long the NFT being used. For example, if the authorization duration is 12 months and the fee in total is 10ETH which has been locked into the "fund account", if the owner transferred his NFT to a new one in the end of third month, then the owner can receive 2.5ETH only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To solve this problem, the authorization fee paid by the users will be held in an escrow contract for a period of time depending on the duration of the authorization. For example, if the authorization duration is 12 months and the fee in total is 10 ETH, then if the NFT is transferred after 3 months, then only 2.5 ETH would be sent and the remaining 7.5 ETH would be refunded.
```

---

> eip: 58585

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eip: 5585
```

Author: Done,tks.
